# Simulation of coral growth
by the KoraalKnakkers (Group 4):  
- Marlon de Jong  
- Charlotte Kaandorp  
- Tim Müller  
- Malou Sprinkhuizen

This repository was made during the UvA Computational Science Master course Complex System Simulation.

Check the online repo [here](https://github.com/Lut99/KoraalKnakkers).

## Quickstart Guide

To quickly run the code, simply open ```DLA final.ipynb``` in Jupyter notebook and run all cells. Some cells may give some file-not-found errors, but that shouldn't be an issue. These are only relevant once ```experiment.py``` is used.

## Longstart Guide

There are two files of interest: ```DLA final.ipynb``` and ```experiments.py```. The first is used as the main notebook for running the model and plotting results. The python script, however, is used to run experiments in bulk, the results of which are stored on disk in (possibly compressed) .npy files. They can then be loaded in the notebook for plotting.

The ```experiments.py``` file is now set to run for one alpha value and one test iteration, as a proof of concept. It should be pretty straightforward to extend it to run other values and more iterations, but be warned that it generates a lot of data - use at your own risk.  
**Note**: running the ```experiment.py``` needs a ```outputs/``` folder in the current working directory. It also needs an ```alpha``` or ```threshold``` subfolder, depending on the parameter you run.

There is also the auxillary ```progressBar.py```, which is a small library from an earlier project to show a progressbar. Not super relevant for understanding the model.

The code in both main files should be self-explanatory, and mostly the same as well. The notebook version is slightly better documented, so we recommend to look at that one first.

The code is developed on ```Python 3.9.5```. Packages required are listed in requirements.txt, aside from two (optional) non-pip packages: the ```ffmpeg```-package, used for creating ```.mp4``` files from the generated plot ```.png```'s, and the ```zip```-package for compressing the ```.npy``` files generated by ```experiment.py```.

The ```archive``` folder contains old code and previous iterations. Can be safely ignored, unless you want to enrich yourself with obsolete and messy programming.

The ```old vids``` folder contains videos from previous iterations of the code, and is therefore slightly outdated. However, since they are still nice and informative -since they contain a faster flow, for example- we left them in.

Finally, the ```results``` folder contains the plots we used in the presentation, which are generated by the code in the notebook and experiment files.
